What's new in 8.18 (#6710)
elastic/security-docs: docs/whats-new.asciidoc

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.18/engine-status.png[Engine status tab,60%]

[float]
=== Entity risk scoring and entity store are generally available 

{security-guide}/entity-risk-scoring.html[Entity risk scoring] and entity store are moving from technical preview to general availability. Use these features to monitor the risk score of entities in your environment and query persisted entity metadata.

[float]
=== Include closed alerts in risk score calculations

When {security-guide}/turn-on-risk-engine.html[turning on the risk engine], you now have the option to include `Closed` alerts in risk scoring calculations. By default, only `Open` and `Acknowledged` alerts are included. Additionally, you can specify a custom date and time range for the calculation, allowing for more flexible and tailored risk monitoring.

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.18/include-closed-alerts.png[Toggle for including closed alerts in risk score calculations,60%]

[float]
== Detection rules and alerts enhancements

[float]
=== Customize and manage prebuilt detection rules

> Previously, you could only add notification actions to prebuilt rules and couldn't export or import them. Now, you can {security-guide}/rules-ui-management.html#edit-rules-settings[edit] most prebuilt rule settings and customize them to fit your needs. When updating prebuilt rules, your customizations are preserved whenever possible and can be merged with Elastic updates. In addition, you can now export and import prebuilt rules (modified and unmodified) and bulk-update their settings from the **Rules** page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, you had limited ability to customize prebuilt rules, couldn’t export or import them, and could only accept Elastic changes during rule updates. Now, you can do so much more. 

After installing prebuilt rules, you're now able to {security-guide}/rules-ui-management.html#edit-rules-settings[edit] most of their settings to fit your custom needs. When updating rules, Elastic retains your changes whenever possible and helps you auto-resolve conflicts that may occur. Additional enhancements, such as the ability to compare different versions of a rule and edit the final update, have also been made to give you more control over the {security-guide}/prebuilt-rules-update-modified-unmodified.html[prebuilt rule update experience]. 

In addition to customizing prebuilt rules, you're now able to: 

* {security-guide}/rules-ui-management.html#import-export-rules-ui[Export and import] prebuilt rules that have been modified or left unchanged.
* {security-guide}/rules-ui-management.html#edit-rules-settings[Bulk-edit] prebuilt rules settings, such as custom highlighted fields or tags.  

```

{security-guide}/siem-migration.html[Automatic Migration] for detection rules helps you quickly convert SIEM rules from the Splunk Processing Language (SPL) to the Elasticsearch Query Language ({esql}). If comparable Elastic-authored rules exist, it simplifies onboarding by mapping your rules to them. Otherwise, it creates custom rules on the fly so you can verify and edit them instead of writing them from scratch.

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.18/security-siem-migration-1.png[The Upload Splunk SIEM rules flyout]

[float]
=== Automatic Import improvements

{security-guide}/automatic-import.html[Automatic Import] now allows you to select API (CEL input) as a data source and to provide the associated OpenAPI specification (OAS) file to automatically generate a CEL program to consume an API.

[float]
=== Control which alerts Attack Discovery analyzes 

You can now specify which alerts {security-guide}/attack-discovery.html[Attack Discovery] analyzes using a date and time selector and a KQL filter.

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.18/security-attack-discovery-settings.png[Attack Discovery's settings menu,60%]

[float]

> === Citations and documentation for AI Assistant 

Reviewer 2: I would probably flip the title to start with a verb to make it more direct. This is the pattern for other headings too.

> {security-guide}/security-assistant.html[AI Assistant] can now cite sources including Elastic's product documentation, threat reports, and more.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{security-guide}/security-assistant.html[AI Assistant] can now cite sources, including Elastic's product documentation, threat reports, and more.
```

[float]
=== Run a script on CrowdStrike-enrolled hosts 

Using Elastic's CrowdStrike integration and connector, you can now {security-guide}/response-actions.html#runscript[run a script] on CrowdStrike-enrolled hosts by providing one of the following:

* The full script content
* The name of the script stored in a cloud storage location
* The file path of the script located on the host machine

[float]
=== Isolate and release Microsoft Defender for Endpoint–enrolled hosts

Using Elastic's Microsoft Defender for Endpoint integration and connector, you can now {security-guide}/third-party-actions.html#defender-response-actions[perform response actions] on hosts enrolled in Microsoft Defender's endpoint protection system. These actions are available in this release:

* Isolate a host from the network
* Release an isolated host

[float]
=== Third-party response actions are generally available 

{security-guide}/third-party-actions.html[Third-party response actions] are moving from technical preview to general availability. This includes response capabilities for Sentinel One, Crowdstrike, and Microsoft Defender for Endpoint.

[float]

> == Maximum Osquery timeout is 24 hours

Reviewer 2: Flip the heading to start w/ an action verb, if possible.
